It's worth understanding how Kafka stores data so that we can
better appreciate how the brokers achieved such high throughput.
In fact, the way that Kafka stores data is almost disappointingly simple.
Kafka simply has a data directory on disk where it stores a logged data and text files.
So here we have a directory /var/lib/kafka/data.
This is where Kafka will sorts data in your workspace
as well as in many Kafka production systems.
Each topic receives its own sub-directory with the associated name of the topic.
So here we have a sub-directory a and a sub-directory for topic
b. Kafka may store more than one log file for a given topic. Why is that?
If Kafka were to use just one file to store the data for a given topic,
it would be limited to the speed of a disk on which the broker is running.
To help alleviate that,
Kafka can split data into many files.
You can control this when you create your topic
which we'll see how to do it in the next section.